+++
title = "Health-Selective Migration among Patients with Rheumatoid Arthritis in Quebec :A Cohort Study Using Administrative Data"
date = "2016-01-01"
publication_types = ["2"]
authors = ["Jeremy A Labrecque", "Ryan P Kyle", "Lawrence Joseph", "Sasha Bernatsky"]
publication = "In: Rheumatology International, (36), 9, _pp. 1275--1279_, https://doi.org/10.1007/s00296-016-3540-1"
abstract = "Little is known about how rheumatoid arthritis (RA) affects an\\textbackslashnindividual's ability to relocate. The current literature suggests the\\textbackslashnrelationship between health and migration is often disease-specific. We\\textbackslashnsought to estimate the impact of RA diagnosis on migration within a\\textbackslashnCanadian province, comparing migration rates in residents before and\\textbackslashnafter RA diagnosis. We identified a cohort of 81,181 individuals\\textbackslashndiagnosed with RA between 1998 and 2009 using Quebec administrative\\textbackslashndatabases. A migration was defined as a change in the first three\\textbackslashncharacters of the postal code. We categorized migrations as urban or\\textbackslashnrural depending upon an individual's origin and destination. We\\textbackslashnestimated the association between RA diagnosis and migration by fitting\\textbackslashnmarginal models using a generalized estimating equations approach,\\textbackslashnadjusting for age, sex, and population level socioeconomic status\\textbackslashnindicators. The vast majority of moves after RA diagnosis were within\\textbackslashnurban areas. RA diagnosis was associated with increased migration except\\textbackslashnfor people around age 50 moving within urban areas. Although RA was\\textbackslashnassociated with increased inter-urban migration in many demographic\\textbackslashngroups, the net result did not translate to higher rates of\\textbackslashnrural-to-urban migration after RA diagnosis. Our results suggest fairly\\textbackslashncomplex associations between RA diagnosis and migration. Both age and\\textbackslashnlocation (urban or rural) modify this effect. Overall, we did not see a\\textbackslashngreater movement from rural-to-urban areas after RA diagnosis. This is\\textbackslashnof interest for studies of regional environmental effects on chronic\\textbackslashndisease patterns."
abstract_short = ""
image_preview = ""
selected = false
projects = []
tags = []
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""
math = true
highlight = true
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""
+++
